# Stock Investment Analysis Application

---

## About The Project

This Stock Investment Analysis Application is designed to help investors make informed decisions about their investment choices. The application looks at an investors stock selection and peforms the following tasks:
+ Runs a Sharpe and Sortino Ratio analysis
+ Creates a Bollinger Band graph to test for recent volatility
+ Runs a performance check using a Monte Carlo Simulation
+ Provides a final Buy/Sell/Hold recommendation 
 
---

## Installation

This code was run on a pc with Windows 10

This project leverages python 3.9 with the following packages:

+ streamlit
+ pandas 
+ pandas-datareader 
+ requests
+ yfinance 
+ plotly
+ MCForecastTools
+ matplotlib
+ numpy

### Installation Guide(MacOS & Windows)

1.  Open a terminal or command prompt on your computer.
2.  Install all packages by running the commands: 

```bash
  pip install streamlit
  pip install pandas 
  pip install pandas-datareader 
  pip install requests
  pip install yfinance 
  pip install datetime 
  pip install Matplotlib
  pip install MCForecastTools
  pip install numpy
```

---

## Usage

### Running Streamlit
### Navigate to the main

```bash
streamlit run stream_app.py
```

### Navigate the steamlit window

```bash
"variables_plugin" 
"stock_tables_plugin" 
"metric_results_plugin"
"rolling_bollinger_plugin"
"monte_carlo_plugin"
```

> "variables_plugin": 
This plugin prompts the user to enter a stock ticker symbol, the length of time they want to hold the security, and their required rate of return. It stores these variables and passes them on to other plugins.

> "stock_tables_plugin": 
This plugin retrieves historical stock price data from Yahoo Finance for the stock ticker entered by the user. It then generates a table of the daily closing prices and plots a line graph of the stock price history.

> "metric_results_plugin": This plugin calculates a range of commonly used financial metrics, such as the Sharpe ratio and the maximum drawdown, for the historical stock price data retrieved by the stock_tables_plugin and the Monte Carlo simulation results generated by the monte_carlo_plugin.

> "rolling_bollinger_plugin": This plugin calculates the rolling mean and standard deviation of the stock price data retrieved by the stock_tables_plugin, and uses this to generate a Bollinger Bands chart that shows the upper and lower bounds of the expected stock price range over time.

> "monte_carlo_plugin": This plugin uses Monte Carlo simulation to generate a range of possible future stock price scenarios based on the historical data retrieved by the stock_tables_plugin. It then calculates the expected return and risk for each scenario, and generates a probability distribution of potential investment returns.

#**Do WE NEED TO ADD AN INSTRUCTION FOR USERS TO GUIDE THEM HOW TO DO THE QUESTIONARY HERE**
---

## Summary

I like ribeye, and you?
I like ribeye, and you?
I like ribeye, and you?

---

## Contributors

* Michael Roth
* Demi Gao
* Diego Favela
* Jonny Cruz

---

## License
This program is licensed under the MIT License.